I like to shift the focus and talk about
swimming pools I was very proud to be
President the Blackhawk area swim team
where we had four teenage boys set three
age groups swimming records and it's an
Olympic swimming pool in Cedar Falls
Iowa that no longer exists because of
aging and deteriorating conditions and
one of the disturbing things about your
report was a dying corpse contract with
the State Department revealed
unauthorized work being performed under
the contract and it's specifically the
building of an olympic-sized swimming
pool and luxury trailers without
authorization from the State Department
is that correct that's correct and I
understand we have some pictures that
were not included in your report maybe
we can put those up on the screen while
I ask you a question this first
photograph that we're looking at appears
to depict a pool that's in pretty poor
condition as I understand it dyncorp had
the pool built but then it collapsed is
that correct that's right and this pool
was built in 2004 and then was
subsequently rebuilt that's right so
let's put the picture of the pool up as
it appears today is that it hey yes sir
it looks like a pretty impressive
facility yes sir there are many swim
clubs in this country who have
limitations of being able to swim only
in a 25-yard or 25 meter pool and that
looks like one that would be available
for competition level swimming yes sir
now do we know who paid for the pool to
be rebuild a second time no we don't
wear that is something that we are
following up on through our
investigative work so it could have been
someone else but as I understand from
the communications with your staff this
could have been built again by dyncorp
is that correct that's possible that's a
possibility and we will get that answer
for you in short order so theoretically
us pat taxpayers could have paid for
this pool twice we will find out the
answer to that question yes sir and do
you know whose idea was to build a
swimming pool
this was unauthorized work directed by
the Iraqi Ministry of Interior
apparently from the course of our audit
it was approved by the senior adviser to
the Ministry of Interior for the
coalition provisional authority did
dyncorp have authorization from the
State Department when they perform the
work no they did not that the system
that we have set up depends on an
effective contracting officers
representative exerting oversight of how
the money is spent under a contract that
did not happen in this case and indeed
it has been a problem with respect to
the State Department's inl office
oversight of dyncorp the result one of
the salutary results of our audit is
that that contracting officers
representatives been replaced can you
tell the committee who the person was at
the CPA who gave that authorization I
think you should go to the inl
Department for who that person is at our
hearing last week on the 12 billion
dollars in cash that the CPA failed to
properly account for ambassador Bremer
and others made the argument that we
shouldn't worried because it was just a
rocky money and I disagreed with that
argument at the time nevertheless today
we're talking about US taxpayer money
and these same CPA officials seem to be
just as careless with taxpayer money as
they were with a rocky money I hope mr.
chairman that the committee will pursue
this question with the State Department
and push dyncorp to return all these
millions of dollars as the inspector
general recommended in his audit report